README.md, before:

# Omniauth for Sinatra

This is a template for launching Sinatra apps quickly and easily,
using [OmniAuth](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth) as the authentication protocol.
It differs from most of the "use Twitter with Sinatra" code bases, as it incorporates
sessions and a `User` model in the database. This means your user should remain logged
in as long as your server stays live.

The instructions here assume you're using Twitter, but you can use any auth provider handled by OmniAuth.

Most of the actual code here is simply a port/mashup of Ryan Bates's example from [RailsCasts #241:
Simple OmniAuth](http://railscasts.com/episodes/241-simple-omniauth) and the OmniAuth readme.

Once you have your auth codes, getting a new Sinatra app with authentication working is simply a matter
of copying the `app.rb` file from here into a new directory, pasting in your auth codes, and then starting
in on your app's code. It just works.

## Getting Started Instructions

### 1. Install Omniauth and the other required gems

    gem install omniauth omniauth-twitter dm-core dm-sqlite-adapter dm-migrations sinatra

### 2. Get your Twitter Auth Keys

At Twitter, [register for a new app](https://dev.twitter.com/apps/new).
Note the _Consumer Key_ and _Consumer Secret_ strings it gives you.


### 3. Enter your Auth Keys into the app.rb file

The file `app.rb` has a place for your `CONSUMER_KEY` and `CONSUMER_SECRET`. Just replace them, and you're
set. Fire up your local server via `ruby app.rb` and you can see your log-in setup.


## A Minor Note

Note that if you want to use shotgun or reloader while testing your app, then you'll need to set
`:session_secret` in your configure block:

    configure :development, :testing do
      set :session_secret, "random string"
    end

## Feedback Is Awesome

I'd really love to hear any suggestions you have on how to improve this. On Twitter,
I'm [@charliepark](https://twitter.com/charliepark/). By e-mail, I'm charlie@charliepark.org.

Commit message:

Adds GitHub example and modifies readme appropriately.

README.md, after:

# Omniauth for Sinatra

This is a template for launching Sinatra apps quickly and easily,
using [OmniAuth](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth) as the authentication protocol.
It differs from most of the "use Twitter with Sinatra" code bases, as it incorporates
sessions and a `User` model in the database. This means your user should remain logged
in as long as your server stays live.

The instructions in the "twitter-template.rb" file assume you're using Twitter, but you can use any auth provider handled by OmniAuth. To see how you'd use GitHub, check out the "github-template.rb" file.

Most of the actual code here is simply a port/mashup of Ryan Bates's example from [RailsCasts #241: Simple OmniAuth](http://railscasts.com/episodes/241-simple-omniauth) and the OmniAuth readme.

Once you have your auth codes, getting a new Sinatra app with authentication working is simply a matter of copying the `app.rb` file from here into a new directory, pasting in your auth codes, and then starting in on your app's code. It just works.

## Getting Started Instructions (Twitter version)

### 1. Install Omniauth and the other required gems

    gem install omniauth omniauth-twitter dm-core dm-sqlite-adapter dm-migrations sinatra

(Note that the GitHub template uses the `omniauth-github` gem instead of `omniauth twitter`.)

### 2. Get your Twitter Auth Keys

At Twitter, [register for a new app](https://dev.twitter.com/apps/new).
Note the _Consumer Key_ and _Consumer Secret_ strings it gives you.


### 3. Enter your Auth Keys into the app.rb file

The file `twitter-template.rb` has a place for your `CONSUMER_KEY` and `CONSUMER_SECRET`. Just replace them, and you're set. Fire up your local server via `ruby twitter-template.rb` and you can see your log-in setup. (Again, `github-template.rb` shows how you'd set up a GitHub-auth'd service.)


## A Minor Note

Note that if you want to use shotgun or reloader while testing your app, then you'll need to set
`:session_secret` in your configure block:

    configure :development, :testing do
      set :session_secret, "random string"
    end

## Feedback Is Awesome

I'd really love to hear any suggestions you have on how to improve this. On Twitter,
I'm [@charliepark](https://twitter.com/charliepark/). By e-mail, I'm charlie@charliepark.org.
